docs/submission-overview.md, before:

---
id: submission-overview
title: Overview
---

## ARGO Data Initiative

The **International Cancer Genome Consortium Accelerating Research in Genomic Oncology (ICGC ARGO)** initiative brings together international researchers to analyze genomic and transcriptomic changes along with high-quality clinical data from over 100,000 patients.

The Ontario Institute for Cancer Research (OICR) operates as the **Data Coordination Centre (DCC)** to develop the ARGO Data Platform which manages submission, processing, analysis, and dissemination of high-quality clinical and molecular data.

Participating programs submit data through the **[ARGO Data Platform](https://platform.icgc-argo.org/)**, which is also the destination for public data display and analysis.

## Data Dictionary

To support the gathering of high-quality data, a clinical data dictionary has been developed that performs rigorous validation on submitted data at the time of submission. Clinical data is defined in logical groupings, which will be submitted as TSV files in the ARGO Submission section.

Explore the details of the ARGO clinical dataset in the **[ARGO Data Dictionary Viewer](/dictionary).**

## Data Submission and Release Process

The ARGO Data Platform has been optimized to ensure that clinical and molecular data upload is intuitive, efficient and quick for data submitters. ARGO data submission and release happens in 4 major steps:

1. **Register Molecular Samples:** [Registering samples](registering-samples) initializes the ARGO-assigned primary identifiers that will be assigned to submitted data entities. Registering samples with specimen and donor identifiers upfront maintains data integrity across the data submission and processing pipeline.
1. **Submit Donor Clinical and Molecular Data:** Clinical Data Submitters can use the Submission section in the ARGO Data Platform to submit clinical data. [Submitting clinical data](submitting-clinical-data) is easy and intuitive, facilitated by a guided clinical submission interface. In parallel, Molecular Data Submitters can begin submitting molecular data. [Submitting molecular data](submitting-molecular-data) using the Song and Score clients is fast and secure.
1. **Molecular Data Processing:** Once raw molecular data has been submitted, analytic workflows will be automatically kicked off for uniform analysis of all donor samples.
1. **Data QC and Release:** Once **both** core clinical and molecular data has been submitted, and analysis is complete for a donor, the donor data will be released to the program for quality control and the [Data Release](data-release-schedule) process will begin. After an embargo period, donor data will be available on the ARGO Data Platform.

![ARGO Submission Process](/assets/submission/submission-process.png)

Submitted program data will be available for review using a [Program Dashboard](/docs/submitted-data), with statistics about the program's submission status, released data, and molecular data analysis progress.

If you have any questions about the clinical data or data dictionary, please contact the DCC.

Commit message:

Initial changes to adapt site to C19

docs/submission-overview.md, after:

---
id: submission-overview
title: Overview
---

## Clinical Data Standardization for COVID-19: Call to Action

The **COVID-19 Healthcare Coalition** (C19HCC) is a collaborative private-industry response to novel coronavirus. Our mission is to save lives by providing real-time learning to preserve healthcare delivery and protect populations. We’re bringing together the best, brightest minds, assets and insights from across private industry to coordinate a response. We’re sharing resources, sharing plans, and working together.

## Data Dictionary

The clinical data needed to derive insights on COVID-19 screening and management is a moving target. Many organizations are defining data elements and codes to represent COVID-19-related data. We can unlock at-scale analytics for COVID-19 to produce valuable clinical insights by creating:

* A base set of data requirements for clinical data providers to 1) scope and guide clinical data extraction with minimal effort, transformations, and assumptions; and 2) feed a broad set of analytics questions with a single stroke and minimal assumptions.

* Standardized definitions and transformation logic, where applicable, for COVID-19 clinically relevant data elements for consumers of clinical data to accelerate analytics efforts and increase transparency and comparability of derived and aggregate data.

We welcome clinical data providers and analytics teams to share their needs and priorities to guide and contribute to this effort!

Explore the details of the COVID-19 clinical dataset in the **[C19HCC Data Dictionary Viewer](/dictionary).**

## Data Submission and Release Process

If you have any questions about the clinical data or data dictionary, please contact us at C19hcc@mitre.org.
